# Information Diffusion
What is the nature of social spreading?

Different dynamic scenarios:
1. something spreads from one node to another (one copy)
2. something spreads to all neighbors ()
3. something spreads only when there are multiple exerting forces

which is true? which is the best to describe social spreading?
we don't know based on studies examined so far.

# Three Men Make a Tiger
<u>Idea</u>: An individual has a tendency to accept absurd information as long as it is repeated by enough people. This tendency to accept absurd information is rooted in certain cognitive biases.

> The proverb came from the story of an alleged speech by Pang Cong (龐蔥), an official of the state of Wei in the Warring States period (475 BC – 221 BC) in Chinese History. According to the Warring States Records, or Zhan Guo Ce, before he left on a trip to the state of Zhao, Pang Cong asked the King of Wei whether he would hypothetically believe in one civilian's report that a tiger was roaming the markets in the capital city, to which the King replied no. Pang Cong asked what the King thought if two people reported the same thing, and the King said he would begin to wonder. Pang Cong then asked, "what if three people all claimed to have seen a tiger?" The King replied that he would believe in it. **Pang Cong reminded the King that the notion of a live tiger in a crowded market was absurd, yet when repeated by numerous people, it seemed real.** Since Pang Cong, as a high-ranking official, had more than three opponents and critics, he was in fact urging the King to pay no attention to those who would spread rumors about him (Pang Cong) while he was away. "I understand," the King replied, and Pang Cong left for Zhao. Yet, slanderous talk took place. When Pang Cong returned to Wei, the King indeed stopped seeing him.


# Cognitive Biases
**[motivated reasoning](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Motivated_reasoning)**: an emotion-biased decision-making phenomenon. It is the idea that humans are motivated to believe whatever confirms their opinions. Motivated reasoning can lead to a false social consensus over time.

**[consensus reality](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consensus_reality)**: beliefs with high societal consensus are treated like facts, whereas beliefs with relatively low consensus are more susceptible to persuasion and attitude change. This is most likely a product of the social consensus of the specific community one lives in.

# Threshold Models of Collective Behavior
**threshold**: the point where the perceived benefits to an individual of doing something in question exceed the perceived cost; derived from the result of some (possibly complex) combination of costs and benefits.

## Equilibrium Outcomes
Predict from the initial distribution of thresholds the ultimate number pr proportion making each of the two decisions. Mathematically, the question is one of finding **equilibrium** in a process occurring over time.

## Stability of Equilibrium Outcomes
There is a need for systematic treatment of the stability of the equilibrium which follows from some given distribution thresholds.

**Effects of friendship and influence**
- social structure: influence any given person has on one's behavior may depend upon the relationship
- *null hypotheses*: the introduction of social structure makes no difference in the equilibrium generated by a given threshold distribution
- analysis indicates that the null hypothesis becomes increasingly improbable as the weight attached to friends' behavior increases
- the symmetry of ties has little effect on outcomes
- social structure within interacting groups has important but complex relationships to results

**Spatial and temporal effects**
- the simple model makes an implicit assumption of complete connectedness which is often inappropriate: that each individual is responsive to the behavior of all the others, regardless of the size or spatial or temporal dispersion of the aggregation
- sampling variability changes the equilibrium conclusion

-----
# Review

| Question | Answer |
| --- | --- |
| Models of normative behavior and preference counting can't take into account how small changes in preferences can have large differences in outcomes.   | True  |
| How are the results of Granovetter's simple threshold model seemingly paradoxical?   | Crowds with very similar preference composition can produce huge differences in outcome.  |
| The threshold model is particularly meaningful when most thresholds in the population are either 0% or 100%.   | False  |


-----
# References
- [Three Men Make a Tiger](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three_men_make_a_tiger)
- [Threshold Models of Collective Behavior, Granovetter](https://www.jstor.org/stable/2778111)
